# MunkiInstallsItemsCreator

> **NOTE: This page is automatically generated by GitHub Actions when a new release is tagged.**<br />Updates to the information on this page should be submitted as pull requests to the AutoPkg repository. Processors are located [here](https://github.com/autopkg/autopkg/tree/master/Code/autopkglib).
## Description
Generates an installs array for a pkginfo file.

## Input Variables
- **installs\_item\_paths:**
    - **required:** True
    - **description:** Array of paths to create installs items for.
- **derive\_minimum\_os\_version:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** If minosversion is present in the installs array within additional\_pkginfo, then an additional key will be added to additional\_pkginfo named minimum\_os\_version with the value of minosversion.
- **faux\_root:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** The root of an expanded package or filesystem.
- **version\_comparison\_key:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Set 'version\_comparison\_key' for installs items. If this is a string, it is set to this value for all items given to 'installs\_item\_paths'. If this is a dictionary, takes a mapping of a path as given to 'installs\_item\_paths' to the desired version\_comparison\_key.
Example:
{'/Applications/Foo.app': 'CFBundleVersion',
'/Library/Bar.plugin': 'CFBundleShortVersionString'}

## Output Variables
- **additional\_pkginfo:**
    - **description:** Pkginfo dictionary containing installs array.


