# CURLDownloader

> **NOTE: This page is automatically generated by GitHub Actions when a new release is tagged.**<br />Updates to the information on this page should be submitted as pull requests to the AutoPkg repository. Processors are located [here](https://github.com/autopkg/autopkg/tree/master/Code/autopkglib).
## Description
Downloads a URL to the specified download\_dir using curl.

## Input Variables
- **url:**
    - **required:** True
    - **description:** The URL to download.
- **request\_headers:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Optional dictionary of headers to include with the download request.
- **curl\_opts:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Optional array of options to include with the download request.
- **download\_dir:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** The directory where the file will be downloaded to. Defaults to RECIPE\_CACHE\_DIR/downloads.
- **filename:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Filename to override the URL's tail.
- **prefetch\_filename:**
    - **default:** False
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** If True, URLDownloader attempts to determine filename from HTTP headers downloaded before the file itself. 'prefetch\_filename' overrides 'filename' option. Filename is determined from the first available source of information in this order:
	1. Content-Disposition header
	2. Location header
	3. 'filename' option (if set)
	4. last part of 'url'.  
'prefetch\_filename' is useful for URLs with redirects.
- **CHECK\_FILESIZE\_ONLY:**
    - **default:** False
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** If True, a server's ETag and Last-Modified headers will not be checked to verify whether a download is newer than a cached item, and only Content-Length (filesize) will be used. This is useful for cases where a download always redirects to different mirrors, which could cause items to be needlessly re-downloaded. Defaults to False.
- **PKG:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Local path to the pkg/dmg we'd otherwise download. If provided, the download is skipped and we just use this package or disk image.

## Output Variables
- **pathname:**
    - **description:** Path to the downloaded file.
- **last\_modified:**
    - **description:** last-modified header for the downloaded item.
- **etag:**
    - **description:** etag header for the downloaded item.
- **download\_changed:**
    - **description:** Boolean indicating if the download has changed since the last time it was downloaded.
- **url\_downloader\_summary\_result:**
    - **description:** Description of interesting results.


