# CodeSignatureVerifier

> **NOTE: This page is automatically generated by GitHub Actions when a new release is tagged.**<br />Updates to the information on this page should be submitted as pull requests to the AutoPkg repository. Processors are located [here](https://github.com/autopkg/autopkg/tree/master/Code/autopkglib).
## Description
Verifies application bundle or installer package signature.

    Requires version 0.3.1.

## Input Variables
- **DISABLE\_CODE\_SIGNATURE\_VERIFICATION:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Skip this Processor step altogether. Typically this would be invoked using AutoPkg's defaults or via '--key' CLI options at the time of the run, rather than being defined explicitly within a recipe.
- **input\_path:**
    - **required:** True
    - **description:** File path to an application bundle (.app) or installer package (.pkg or .mpkg). Can point to a path inside a .dmg which will be mounted.
- **expected\_authority\_names:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** An array of strings defining a list of expected certificate authority names. Complete list of the certificate name chain is required and it needs to be in the correct order. These can be determined by running: 
	pkgutil --check-signature <path\_to\_pkg>
- **requirement:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** A requirement string to pass to codesign. This should always be set to the original designated requirement of the application and can be determined by running:
	$ codesign --display -r- <path\_to\_app>
- **deep\_verification:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Boolean value to specify that any nested code content will be recursively verified as to its full content. Note that this option is ignored if the current system version is less than 10.9.
- **strict\_verification:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Boolean value to control the strictness of signature validation. If not defined, codesign defaults are used. Note that this option is ignored if the current system version is less than 10.11.
- **codesign\_additional\_arguments:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Array of additional argument strings to pass to codesign.

## Output Variables


