# Unarchiver

> **NOTE: This page is automatically generated by GitHub Actions when a new release is tagged.**<br />Updates to the information on this page should be submitted as pull requests to the AutoPkg repository. Processors are located [here](https://github.com/autopkg/autopkg/tree/master/Code/autopkglib).
## Description
Archive decompressor for zip and common tar-compressed formats.

## Input Variables
- **archive\_path:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Path to an archive. Defaults to contents of the 'pathname' variable, for example as is set by URLDownloader.
- **destination\_path:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Directory where archive will be unpacked, created if necessary. Defaults to RECIPE\_CACHE\_DIR/NAME.
- **purge\_destination:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Whether the contents of the destination directory will be removed before unpacking.
- **archive\_format:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** The archive format. Currently supported: 'zip', 'tar\_gzip', 'tar\_bzip2', 'tar'. If omitted, the file extension is used to guess the format.
- **USE\_PYTHON\_NATIVE\_EXTRACTOR:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Controls whether or not Unarchiver extracts the archive with native Python code, or calls out to a platform specific utility. The default is determined on a platform specific basis. Currently, this means that on macOS platform utilities are used, and otherwise Python is used.
    - **default:** True

## Output Variables


