# AppPkgCreator

> **NOTE: This page is automatically generated by GitHub Actions when a new release is tagged.**<br />Updates to the information on this page should be submitted as pull requests to the AutoPkg repository. Processors are located [here](https://github.com/autopkg/autopkg/tree/master/Code/autopkglib).
## Description
Calls autopkgserver to create a package from an application.

## Input Variables
- **app\_path:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Path to an application to be packaged. Can be on a disk image and globbed. If not set, defaults to %pathname%/\*.app. Typically %pathname% points to a disk image downloaded in a prior recipe step.
- **pkg\_path:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** The pathname for the pkg to be created. If not set, defaults to %RECIPE\_CACHE\_DIR%/%app\_name%-%version%.pkg
- **bundleid:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Bundle identifier of the app. If not set, will be extracted from the CFBundleIdentifier in the app's Info.plist.
- **version:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Version of the app. If not set, will be extracted from the CFBundleShortVersionString in the app's Info.plist.
- **version\_key:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** Alternate key from which to get the app version. If the key does not exist in the app's Info.plist, a ProcessorError will be raised.
- **force\_pkg\_build:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** When set, this forces building a new package even if a package already exists in the output directory with the same identifier and version number. Defaults to False

## Output Variables
- **new\_package\_request:**
    - **description:** True if a new package was actually requested to be built. False if a package with the same filename, identifier and version already exists and thus no package was built (see 'force\_pkg\_build' input variable.)
- **version:**
    - **description:** Version of the app.
- **app\_pkg\_creator\_summary\_result:**
    - **description:** Description of interesting results.


