# GitHubReleasesInfoProvider

> **NOTE: This page is automatically generated by GitHub Actions when a new release is tagged.**<br />Updates to the information on this page should be submitted as pull requests to the AutoPkg repository. Processors are located [here](https://github.com/autopkg/autopkg/tree/master/Code/autopkglib).
## Description
Get metadata from the latest release from a GitHub project using the GitHub Releases API. You should populate GITHUB\_TOKEN\_PATH in preferences.
Requires version 2.8.1.

## Input Variables
- **github\_repo:**
    - **required:** True
    - **description:** Name of a GitHub user and repo, ie. 'autopkg/autopkg'
- **asset\_regex:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** If set, return only a release asset whose name matches this regex. If this is not set, it will behave identically to 'latest\_only' being set.
- **include\_prereleases:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** If a non-empty value, include prereleases when applying regex.
- **latest\_only:**
    - **required:** False
    - **description:** If a non-empty value, apply regex only against latest release's assets.

## Output Variables
- **release\_notes:**
    - **description:** Full release notes body text from the chosen release.
- **url:**
    - **description:** URL for the first matching asset found for the project's latest release.
- **asset\_url:**
    - **description:** The asset URL for the project's latest release. This is an API-only URL distinct from the browser\_download\_url, and is required for programmatically downloading assets from private repositories.
- **version:**
    - **description:** Version info derived from the release's tag.
- **asset\_created\_at:**
    - **description:** The release time of the asset.


